For 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, 1. Now we go on to the next
part, next part, see what happens, see what
happens, 1, 2, 3, 4.
Public at the Bryan Rotary Club Newman 10 award
ceremony. 10 individuals and businesses here are
recognized as being the top 10 in the count in Bryan
College Station and yours truly is the speaker on
that occasion. Don't worry about anything I'm
saying right now. This is just informational and
this highway east of Bastrop is a noisy highway so
I'm hoping this is picking up. We'll soon see.
Today, as we begin a new century, perhaps it is
appropriate for us to glance back briefly
and try to learn as much as we can from our
experience
before we turn forward
with dreams and try to plan an even brighter
future.
The community that we now identify most often as
Bryan College Station
began about one of the third century ago. And
it's beginning proves that transportation has
been the key for our society.
The railroad, which heading north from Houston,
had been built as far as Milliken when the Civil War
began.
And after the end of that awesome, truly awesome
conflict, that construction project continued
quickly.
And then made a curve through the middle of Brazos
County.
And identified a station stop.
For a time as. As
Bryan City.
The distance. From the tracks to the county suit
Brazos County seat of Boonville. soon caused
everyone to move the county
government to the new tracks.
Within a decade, the leaders, the energetic
leaders of this county had persuaded the state
legislature to place the first public
institution of higher education on those tracks
about seven miles south of the courthouse
where the post office address soon became known as
College Station because it was located on the
Houston and Texas Central Railroad tracks.
Within a half century,
the railroad had a transportation rival as the
paved highway paralleled the railroad for many of
the miles south from Bryan toward Navasota.
Perhaps
That transportation key in both its elements in
the 20th century can be illustrated
by the incident when the Aggies kidnapped the rice
owl, nicknamed as Sammy, and placed it in the
arsenal
near on the southwest corner of the campus.
Rice student volunteers came to rescue Sammy and
headed South and their automobile. But the Aggies
chased them. On the rail cars. And in automobiles.
With the episode ending. With only a small
portion. Of the rice owl making it back to Houston.
When most people came to Brazos County in the early
years, they came by rail. Then by. Auto and bus. But
we had a. Very important. Interurban. Running
from the North Gate area. To the middle of downtown
Bryan. Paragraph. Today now we are at the
intersection. of highways 6 and 21
and
save some time on the east and west bypasses
plus using highways 47, 60
and our newest transportation facility The
Easterwood Airport
is thankfully located at the intersection
of highways 60, 47,
and the West Bypass.
A review, a quick glance at a map of the Lone Star
State shows that we are in the middle
of a transportation hub of the population
triangle of Texas,
extending in the north from the metroplex in the
north to Houston
and San Antonio, Austin.
More than two-thirds of the people of this state
live within that triangle.
Or to put it in other words,
there are more residents living within four hours
of our community.
There are twice as many people who live within four
hours of our community as live in any of the states
west of the Mississippi, except California and
Texas.
Some of us can look back on decades of progressive
change here.
When my wife and I arrived in the late summer of
1959,
we were told that there were about 25,000
people in the county seat of Bryan and about 7,000
out around the campus in College Station.
Passenger trains still stopped regularly in both
communities.
And downtown pastors and pastors of some of the
downtown churches learned that they needed to
have their. 11 o'clock worship service sermon.
Completed by 1155.
Because. The locomotive engineers who stopped
near the county and near the county courthouse
would quite often sound off their steam whistles.
If the choir was not, if the final, if the the
concluding hymn of the service had not yet begun.
What we thought was the large new shopping center
at Townshire had just opened. With what seemed to
be a very large Sears and Sears store.
Very large Sears and Roebuck store.
For those of us. Living in College Station. There
was no real grocery store south of Orr's on Texas
Avenue.
And downtown Main Street and downtown Bryan
seemed to be a busy place. So much so that in the
summer of 1960,
That street was repaved
and the central parking island was laid
with the cement being poured in the wee hours of the
morning due to the unusual heat of that occasion
and the
lack of capability at that time to prepare cement
that could safely bond
in high temperatures.
How much, paragraph, how much times have changed
since then? Now,
we should pause
and look to the future and try to determine how we
can make this fine community even better.
Growth seems to be the best of all possible
choices. But only if it is well planned.
If there are skeptics. Who want who are opposed to
growth? And want to live in a town. That is standing
still. Or getting smaller. Each of us. Can think of
a number of communities. Some not far away.
that would offer these skeptics
a free visa permit to join them.
No, it seems that the most essential item is how can
the growth be skillfully planned.
Another example is to attempt to drive through
Austin these days in the rush hour. That beautiful
city,
which truly is a splendid place geographically,
is now so crowded
in terms of traffic
that even
Orange blooded longhorns. Sometimes are
looking. For new pastures.
Paragraph in our planning, we should all work
together.
Yes, there are two municipal governments. Two
school districts.
A full array of county officials.
But in fact, we have one community and one economy.
The number crunchers believe that in the census of
the year 2000, the combined population of Brazos
County's two incorporated cities will total well
beyond 130,000. Thus,
because of location and size, we truly have become
the business center for a fairly large area.
Autumn many drivers commute to work. Here. From
neighboring counties. And do so in increasing
numbers.
Key officials. In all of the counties touching.
Brazos. Admit. That the economy here.
Is the linchpin? of their county's future as well.
Thus, one of the first things we should try to plan
is to get the major roads that intersect here
constructed as four lane divided thoroughfares.
Not only would that improve the transportation It
would also appear to a stranger who reviewed the
map that we were not lost in the middle of East
Central Texas.
Remember that on some maps state highways appear
to be minor league trails.
And Brazos County. certainly has less than its
share of federally designated highways. But if
we, if all who care about the success, the future of
Brazos County could work together, perhaps we
could
ensure that at least highways 21 and 6
were four lane roads
all the way from there all
the way to the nearest interstates.
Paragraph as a sidelight I have heard a report that
our great former congressman olin teague
on a few occasions noted that he had been unable to
attend the committee of the house of
representatives that designated the official
route of the first interstates because at the same
time that that decision was going to be made, he had
to preside over the Veterans Affairs Committee as
chairman. One of the routes decided at that
meeting was the specific location of the
interstate going from Dallas to Houston. Among
the options, according to Congressman Teague's
recollection, for that route was to follow
Highway 75, was to, back up, one of the options was
to come down Interstate 35, which had already been
identified, from Dallas to Waco, and then have
I-45 followed the route of Texas Highway 6 from
Waco to Houston.
The other option was to follow Highway US 75 from
Dallas to Houston, the route which the committee
eventually accepted.
Thus, we can speculate that possibly we might have
been our community might have enjoyed the
benefits of an interstate thoroughfare
for
in recent decades.
Another planning essential is land use
and the protection of our quality of life. We must
preserve the old and established and prepare the
way for the new
established neighborhoods should not be
downgraded.
And we must prepare for increased Automobile
traffic everywhere.
Another item relates to the 19th to the elections
this November.
Not only will we be electing a new chief executive
of this nation. We will also be selecting a
legislature which will reapportion and
redistrict our booming state. Apparently, Texas
will gain two or perhaps three new U.S.
representatives.
Because of the population shifts in the last 10
years, state representative and senatorial
districts will also be redrawn.
Would it not be beneficial to all Brazos counties
if those new lines were drawn in such a way that this
county was a clear key ingredient in any in each of
the districts in which we are located for the next
decade?
If that can be done, then our state
representative, state senator and US
representative would listen even more carefully
to advice and counsel from the folks who live
between the Navasota and the Brazos rivers.
Also, we must make this community. We must clearly
work to make this one community.
Whether you call it BCS. Or if College Station
passes Brian. In the official census. Count this
year as is expected. The federal. bureaucrats may
change it to CSB
more importantly why would it not be better for us
to search for a new title for our community that is
non pejorative to any part of this area as the
Metroplex for the Dallas-Fort Worth is inclusive
and positive, like the Golden Triangle is in
southeast Texas.
Since the Brazos Valley is the most commonly
accepted short title for our area, and we are the
key location in that region,
Would it be worthwhile to consider referring to
this as the hub, the hub of the Brazos Valley?
Paragraph, by whatever nomenclature we identify
ourselves, we should try to make our qualities
known more broadly.
regionally and throughout the nation.
If this is the hub, Texas A&M is the linchpin on that
axle.
And as we strive to attract industry,
the best of all possible customers would be in high
tech, high technology, where A&M has its greatest
strengths. Another potential
group of real benefit would be white collar
retirees.
Can you imagine
that the products of Texas A&M and or Allen Academy
who are approaching retirement
might think about returning back home.
Experience elsewhere has
demonstrated that these middle class folks bring
talent, tax base, and bank balances. They want far
more than golf and tennis. They're looking for
culture, art, music, athletic events, library,
high quality medical services, law and order, and
reasonable real estate costs. and they would like
to be within a reasonably within reasonable
proximity to a good airport.
Other communities that already have
successfully attracted
the middle class retirees include Bloomington,
Indiana, Lexington, Kentucky, Chapel Hill,
North Carolina, Bozeman, Montana, And
Charlottesville, VA.
Those of us in academia.
Know what each of those towns has in common. A big
public institution.
Paragraph. To those. Potential newcomers to our
community.
And to all others who we might attract here. We
should emphasize our progress and positive
positive qualities. Thankfully. We are blessed
with a daily newspaper. That does so. Our eagle
does fly higher than it did in earlier years.
But it can do even more. by
reporting more frequently on the many positive
individuals and organizations who make this hub a
more smoothly rotating community. The other
media should do likewise and thus concentrate on
all the news of our community including the very
positive of course we must continue the splendid
cultural growth in music and the arts
but as we do so would it not be appropriate
in the new millennium to pause and note those who
have made the difference just as we are here today
with these 10.
Could there not be somehow a an annual event to
record the people not only of the present but
particularly the future who helped to endow us
with the benefit Of their careers. Of good works.
Could there be a Brazos Valley Walk of Fame? Or
maybe drive of honor.
With some kind of. Marker. Either in the sidewalk.
Or a. Son to mark. To remind us of those who made the
difference.
Would we dare think of markers on Texas Avenue
hanging from high on Texas Avenue? Beginning in
each direction to go from the city limits, signs at
Hensel Park.
Paragraph similarly, we must continue to try to
make Brazos County more beautiful.